#Introduction

Since the *Dark Sky Forecast API* needs a latitude and longitude, you need some code to provide that. 

The app needs to calculate the latitude and longitude of your current location, and 
the latitude and longitude of a city the user enters on the form.

Since the form needs to show your current city, you also need a routine to calculate the city,
given a latitude and longitude.

??Create the class

Create the file `app/util/Geocode.js`. Note that the file is in the `app` folder, because eventually
you'll be using it from both the classic and modern views.

Use this code:

<pre class="runnable readonly">
Ext.define('Umbrella.util.Geocode', {
    extend: 'Ext.util.Observable',
    requires: [],
    singleton: true,

    getGeocoder: function() {
        this.geoCoder = this.geoCoder || new google.maps.Geocoder();
        return this.geoCoder;
    },

    determineCurrentLocation: function() {
        var deferred = new Ext.Deferred();
        if (navigator.geolocation) {
            navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(function(position) {
                var ll = position.coords;
                deferred.resolve({
                    latitude: ll.latitude,
                    longitude: ll.longitude
                });
            });
        } else {
            deferred.reject('Your browser does not support geolocation.');
        }
        return deferred.promise;
    },

    determineCity: function(ll) {

        var deferred = new Ext.Deferred();

        // Error checking
        ll = ll || {};
        if (Ext.isObject(ll)) {
            if (!(ll.latitude && ll.longitude)) {
                deferred.reject('determineCity requires a single parameter of the form {latitude: 34.1, longitude: -90.3}');
            }
        }

        this.getGeocoder().geocode({
                location: new google.maps.LatLng(ll.latitude, ll.longitude)
            },
            function(results, status) {
                if (status === google.maps.GeocoderStatus.OK) {
                    // results is a Google Maps GeocoderResults array. Within it
                    // somewhere is an item of type "locality" (city). Find it
                    // and save the city's name.

                    var localityResult;

                    for (var i = 0; i < results.length; i++) {
                        var result = results[i];
                        var types = Ext.Object.getValues(result.types);
                        var contains = Ext.Array.contains;
                        if (contains(types, "locality") || contains(types, 'administrative_area_level_1')) {
                            localityResult = result;
                            break;
                        }
                    }
                    var city = localityResult ? localityResult.formatted_address : 'Unknown';
                    deferred.resolve(city);
                } else {
                    deferred.reject('Could not geocode ' + ll.lat() + ',' + ll.lng());
                }
            });
        return deferred.promise;
    },

    determineLocation: function(address) {

        var deferred = new Ext.Deferred();

        if (!Ext.isString(address)) deferred.reject('determineLocation() requires one parameter, an address.');

        address = '' || address;
        address = address.trim();
        if (address) {
            this.getGeocoder().geocode({
                    address: address
                },
                function(results, status) {
                    if (status === google.maps.GeocoderStatus.OK) {
                        var latLng = results[0].geometry.location;
                        deferred.resolve({
                            latitude: latLng.lat(),
                            longitude: latLng.lng()
                        });
                    } else {
                        deferred.reject('Could not geocode "' + address + '"');
                    }
                });
        } else {
            this.determineCurrentLocation().then(function(coordinates) {
                deferred.resolve(coordinates);
            }, function(error) {
                deferred.reject(error);
            });
        }

        return deferred.promise;
    }
});
</pre>

??Review the code

The details of the code don't matter too much, but there are a few interesting aspects.

+Umbrella.util.Geocode+ is a singleton, which means as soon as it's loaded, an instance is created
and referenced by the class name.

The code uses some JSDuck-style comments. If we were to run JS Duck on our project, those would be used 
as the documentation is generated. 

There are three public methods:

- determineCurrentLocation()
- determineCity(ll) &mdash; returns the city for a given latitude and longitude
- determineLocation(address) &mdash; returns the latitude and longitude for a given city or address

Each method is implemented using *promises*. A promise is a trendy JavaScript construct that makes it easier 
to process async calls.
Normally, you'd code such routines by passing a reference to a callback function &mdash; the callback would 
be run with the async result.

A promise has a +then()+ method, so the syntax ends up looking something like:

    Umbrella.util.Geocode.determineLocation('10 Downing Street, London').then(
        doSuccess,
        doReject
    );

The person coding the function that provides the promise runs either +resolve+ or +reject+ on the promise, which in turn runs the
first or second callback in the call to +then+.

The success or reject callback are called as functions, and not methods &mdash; i.e., *this* cannot be used in the function.

Another interesting feature of promises is that the +then+ function must return another promise, which means they can be chained.
That's (sort of) being done in the +determineLocation+ method. If there is no address, the code returns the +determineCurrentLocation+
promise.

??Get the Google Maps API

The geocode class uses the Google Maps API to geocode an address or reverse geocode a latitude/longitude. 

Edit `index.html` and add this statement immediately after the +<title>...</title>+

    <script src="http://maps.googleapis.com/maps/api/js?libraries=geometry&sensor=false"></script>

??Load +Umbrella.util.Geocode+

You have to load a class before you can use it, so for now, just put an entry for +Umbrella.util.Geocode+ in the +requires+ array
of `app/view/main/BaseController.js`.  

Save your changes.

In a universal app, whenever you create, move, or rename a source file, you can introduce ambiguity about how the microloader 
should find that file. You've just created the geocode class so, using a terminal window, navigate to `/umbrella` 
and do a 

    sencha app refresh
    
Then, refresh your browser and look at the debugger's Sources tab. You should see the geocode class being loaded.

??Test the code

In the debugger console, try out the methods of the geocode class. 

First use this code:

    var g = Umbrella.util.Geocode

That will give you a convenient variable *g* to use when running methods.

    g.determineLocation('Madison, Wisconsin').then(function(ll){console.log(ll);}); 

That should log the latitude and longitude of Madison, Wisconsin: `{latitude: 43.0730517, longitude: -89.40123019999999}`

    g.determineCity({latitude: 43.0730517, longitude: -89.40123019999999}).then(function(city){console.log(city);});

That should log the name of the city at those coordinates &mdash; *Madison, WI, USA*

    g.determineCurrentLocation().then(function(ll){console.log(ll);});

This call is the slowest. After a few seconds it should show your latitude and longitude.

#Solution

Solution code is available if you need it: <a href="resources/labsolutions/umbrella05.zip">umbrella05.zip</a>

